








“? : ” is the only ternary operator in C language.
“sizeof” is the only operator which is also a keyword.
In printf() and scanf(), f stands for formatted not function.
Compiler doesn’t know header file, preprocessor processes these and expands souce code.
Header file name can be included in 2 ways, (a) Using angular brackets (b) Using double inverted comma.
Compiler generates assembly code not machine code and then assembler generates the machine code.
sizeof operator cannot tell us the size of functions because this operator works on compile time and functions loads in memory at run time.





Let us see the features one by one:

Procedural Language: In a procedural language like C step by step predefined instructions are carried out. C program may contain more than one function to perform a particular task. New people to programming will think that this is the only way of a particular programming language works. There are other programming paradigms as well in the programming world. Most of the commonly used paradigm is an object-oriented programming language.
Fast and Efficient: Newer languages like java, python offer more features than c programming language but due to additional processing in these languages, their performance rate gets down effectively. C programming language as the been middle-level language provides programmers access to direct manipulation with the computer hardware but higher-level languages do not allow this. That’s one of the reasons C language is considered as the first choice to start learning programming languages. It’s fast because statically typed languages are faster than dynamically typed languages.
Modularity: The concept of storing of C programming language code in the form of libraries for further future uses is known as modularity. This programming language van does a very little on its own most of its power is held by its libraries. C language has it’s own library to solve common problems like in this we can use a particular function by using a header file stored in its library.
Statically Type: C programming language is a statically typed language. Meaning the type of variable is checked at the time of compilation but not at run time. Means each time a programmer type a program they have to mention the type of variables used.
General Purpose Language: From system programming to photo editing software, C programming language is used in various applications. Some of the common applications where it’s used are as follows:
Operating systems: Windows, Linux, iOS, Android, OXS
Databases: PostgreSQL, Oracle, MySQL, MS SQL Server etc.
Rich set of built-in Operators: It is a diversified language with a rich set of built-in operators which are used in writing complex or simplified C programs.
Libraries with rich Functions: Robust libraries and functions in C help even a beginner coder to code with ease.
Middle-Level Language: As it is a middle-level language so it has the combined form of both capabilities of assembly language and features of the high level language.
Portability: C language is lavishly portable as programs which are written in C language can run and compile on any system with either none or small changes.
Easy to Extend: Programs written in C language can be extended means when a program is already written in it then some more features and operations can be added into it.










































